---
title: Breast Cancer Risk Factors
---

Breast cancer is a commonly diagnosed disease in women and it is the second most common form of cancer behind lung cancer with more than 1.3 million women per year being diagnosed with breast cancer worldwide. Age, menopause and ethnicity are the main forces driving the risk of developing breast cancer. While these appear to be non-modifiable, healthy lifestyle choices and a balanced diet can reduce an individual’s risk levels. Breast cancer accounts for 80% of all cancer diagnoses in women above 50 years of age, half of which occur in women aged 50-69 years.

Breast cancer is more commonly seen in post-menopausal women. However this can also be an inverse correlation as breast cancer treatments are seen to cause early menopause in up to 80% of women in the first year. Additionally, race can affect the risk of developing breast cancer. For example, in the last decade the lower incidence of breast cancer in Hispanics can be attributed to their cells lacking estrogen or progesterone receptors.
 
To investigate the variables associated with breast cancer further, this study aims to investigate the relationship between the incidence of breast cancer and age as well as the incidence of breast cancer and menopause. It is also examined whether white, Asians, African-Americans or native Americans have a higher incidence of breast cancer. The present study uses breast cancer datasets from breast cancer surveillance consortium, the Institute of Oncology University Medical Centres at Yugoslavia and India, and two other public datasets to examine the risk factors of breast cancer as very few studies have examined risk factors - previous literature has mainly observed the prognosis of breast cancer. Evidently, different variables are assessed to ascertain their effect on the incidence of breast cancer, which is important as it allows identification of high-risk groups and therefore, development of targeted prevention programs.
