---
date: "2016-05-05T21:48:51-07:00"
title: About
---

Breast cancer is a commonly diagnosed neoplastic disease in women in both economically developed and developing countries. It is the second most common form of cancer behind lung cancer with more than 1.3 million women per year being diagnosed with breast cancer worldwide. Its prevalence and awareness-raising efforts has caused a significant amount of breast cancer research to be conducted to date and data has been collected on breast cancer biology, pathogenesis, risk factors and interventions. This report uses breast cancer datasets from the Institute of Oncology University Medical Centres at Yugoslavia and India, and two other public datasets.

Parameters such as age, menopause and ethnicity pose the greatest risk to developing breast cancer. These are non-modifiable factors and do not undergo modification in the course of an individual’s life. Increased life expectancy in Western countries has caused an increase in the proportion of the elderly population and posed a greater risk of being diagnosed with breast cancer. Among the cancers diagnosed in women, 80 percent include breast cancers in women above 50 years of age and 50% of breast cancers occur in women aged 50 to 69 years. Some population studies present a linear increase in breast cancer incidents for women aged 40 to 59 years and reaches a plateau with a slight decreasing tendency in those aged 70 or above. 

Breast cancer is known to occur around menopause. However, breast cancer treatment including that of chemotherapy and/or ovariectomy has also be shown to cause early menopause in up to 80% of women in the first year. This can present symptoms such as hot flushes, decreased sexual desire, and vaginal dryness which can compromise the individual’s physical, emotional and sexual wellbeing. Although breast cancer can be treated if diagnosed in its early stages, a recurrence is possible in some cases. A recurrence is also possible for individuals who were diagnosed with this cancer at an earlier stage of life.

Race is an intrinsic factor which elevates the risk of the development of breast cancer. In the last decade, white women have shown to contribute to the incidence of breast cancer which is predominantly due to dietary and lifestyle habits. The lower incidence of breast cancer in Hispanics is however due to the lack of expression of the estrogen or progesterone receptor. 
 
To investigate the variables associated with breast cancer further, this study aims to investigate the relationship between the incidence of breast cancer and age as well as the incidence of breast cancer and menopause. Additionally, it aims to determine the relationship between age and the recurrence of breast cancer. It is also examined whether white, Asians, African-Americans or native Americans have a higher incidence of breast cancer. Evidently, different variables are assessed to ascertain their effect on the incidence of breast cancer, which is important as it allows identification of high-risk groups and therefore, development of targeted prevention programs. 
